According to Vogue Business, 75 to 80%
of brand influencer marketing budgets
are being spent on accounts with less
than 100,000 followers. And that's why
today I'm going to give you essentially
a free master class workshop training on
how to actually get paid even if you
have less than 10,000 followers on
Instagram. Now, in actuality, I
shouldn't say if you have less than
10,000 followers on Instagram, because
this can be applied to YouTube, to Tik
Tok, to basically any social media
platform. If you don't have a large
following, but you want to get paid for
posting, then today's episode is going
to be applicable to you. I'm going to
share with you my step-by-step guide to
getting paid brand deals. And throughout
today's episode, I'm going to use
various terms to basically describe the
same thing. Whether I say paid
partnership or influencer marketing or
brand deals, it all essentially refers
to the same thing. when a brand or
company is paying you to make a post
about them or for them. Not to get too
sidetracked this early on, but this is a
little bit different than UGC, which
stands for user generated content. The
main difference here is that with UGC,
brands are paying you to create content
for them, which can be a great option,
especially when you're first getting
started out, because then the brand
isn't requiring you to post the content
on your page, thus showing it to your
audience. They're really just using your
skill set as a content creator to
basically make ads or make posts for
them to use on their own pages. And UGC
can definitely be a great way to make
money on social media. It does require
slightly different skill sets. It
requires less of an audience and more of
a just pure skill or talent for creating
content. But with that being said, a lot
of what I'm going to outline today will
also apply if you want to do UGC. But
let's go back to that stat that I shared
at the very beginning of today's
episode. The majority of influencer
marketing budgets are being spent on
smaller and smaller accounts. The head
of Instagram, Adam Moseri, has recently
said that follower counts, the number of
followers you have, doesn't really
matter very much. And what matters so
much more for determining an account or
a person or a brand's influence, its
power, and its relevancy is how many
views or how much engagement they are
getting on each of their posts. And when
we think about this, it makes sense. Of
course, human nature is to click on
someone's profile, click on someone's
YouTube channel, and see how many
subscribers or followers they have.
That's the first number we see. That's
where our eyes go to first. But
increasingly, that's mattering less and
less. That's so much less important. I
don't care if your brand has 10 million
followers. If each of your posts is
getting 100 views, you don't have very
much social relevancy. On the contrary,
if your brand is maybe just getting
started and you have 2,000 followers,
but you're getting 20,000, 50,000,
100,000, a half a million views on every
single reel or every single post that
you make, well, then you have way more
social currency, way more credibility,
and way more impact. And brands are
starting to recognize this. That's why
15 plus years ago, brands were
exclusively working with A-list
celebrities and the occasional belist
celebrity here or there. But then about
5 to 10 years ago, brands started to
expand a little bit. They started
working with influencers on social
media. They might not have been A-list
celebrities, but they still had millions
or at least hundreds of thousands of
followers. And now more than ever
before, brands are looking for smaller
and smaller accounts. They're looking
for people with less than 100,000, less
than 20,000, less than 10,000 followers.
And that's because brands, like all the
rest of us, have figured something out.
They figured out that these smaller,
more concentrated niche communities are
oftentimes way more highly engaged,
paying way more attention with way more
trust, and they're way more likely to
buy something than the Kim Kardashian
communities of the world. Don't get me
wrong, most of the Kardashians are still
getting paid hundreds of thousands, if
not millions of dollars for just one
single post. But like that stat that I
shared at the beginning of this episode
shows, brands are increasingly working
with smaller and smaller accounts and
allocating much more of their budget for
those smaller accounts. Basically,
because smaller accounts usually have
higher engagement rates and more
attentive and energized and enthusiastic
communities, those smaller accounts can
oftent times generate a higher ROI
return on investment than the much
larger accounts. All of this should be
great news for you. And I hope that as
we continue through this episode today
and I share with you all of my tricks
and tips for getting brand deals that
you have this sense in your mind that
you can do it. It is absolutely possible
for you and it has never been easier
than right now today. Really quick, I do
want to share with you three reasons why
you should consider adding brand deals.
Now, if you clicked on this episode,
maybe this is already something that
you're interested in. Maybe this is
something that you're already exploring
and you want to know. If that's the case
and you're like, "Hey, I don't need to
be convinced of why I should do this."
then go ahead and skip over these next
three bullet points. But if you're still
on the fence, if you're like, h, I don't
know if I want to add this into my
social media presence. I don't know if
this will dilute my brand or if this
will, you know, challenge my followers
or if I'll lose followers because of it.
First and foremost, let me say this is a
great way to diversify your income. I'm
someone who has a brand, who has a
business, we have a product, the Insta
Club, the number one Instagram course in
the world. And yet, I still post about
other brands, other services on my
Instagram, because a, it's a great way
to diversify my income. My income is not
solely reliant on my business making
money. I can also rely on other
businesses pay me to make money for
them. Number two, when done correctly,
which we'll talk about in a minute, it
can be a great way to serve your
audience. You could think of brand deals
or partnerships as recommending your
favorite movies or books or TV shows to
your friends and family. Oftentimes,
that's just part of being a good friend
is, "Hey, I saw this great movie. You
should go check it out. Hey, I read this
awesome book. You should read it, too."
The same is true with brand
partnerships. You are basically
recommending something to your audience
that would benefit them. And the only
difference is you're going to now get
paid for that recommendation. And then
the third reason why you might consider
taking on brand partnerships is that it
can give you great social credibility or
just add trust to your name. Later we're
going to talk about what brands to work
with and what brands not to work with.
But think about if you were a running
influencer with 10,000 followers. You
were somewhat up and coming. You were
still trying to make a name for yourself
in the running influencer space. And
then you did a brand partnership with
Nike, one of the biggest apparel brands
in the history of the world. That's
going to give you great social
credibility. People are going to look at
your account and say, "Hey, if Nike was
willing to work with this girl, I should
follow her. Hey, if Nike was willing to
pay her, I as another workout brand,
another apparel company, maybe I should
consider paying her for a post about my
brand." So, it can give you great clout
or social credibility to work with
certain brands. But, of course, I assume
you don't need that much convincing
because you are listening to this
episode after all. So, let me share with
you my three steps to getting paid brand
deals in 2025. Step number one, wait for
a really dark, starry night. No clouds
in the sky. Step two, go outside, set up
a chair, and just start looking at the
sky, waiting for a shooting star. Step
number three, when that star goes flying
across the sky, make a wish. Close your
eyes, cross your fingers, make a wish,
and don't. No, of course, this is all
BS. This is not how it works. You can't
just wish upon a star. You can't just
pray for it. You can't just sit back and
hope that a brand deal is going to
magically fall on your lap. We have to
work for it. And so, let's talk about
how you can actually work for it. And I
should say, I should have said this
earlier, my own credibility is that I
have done over a million dollars in
brand deals throughout my careers. And
just last year alone, I partnered with
over 20 different brands on my social
media. I've been doing brand
partnerships for about seven years now.
I've done it by myself solo. I've done
it with an agent. I've done it with an
agency. I've worked with some of the
biggest companies in the world. We're
talking top five biggest brands in the
entire world. And I've worked with
little itty bitty tiny local businesses
as well. I've done brand deals in
exchange for free product. And I've done
brand deals where they have paid five
figures for one single Instagram post. I
have done everything under the sun with
the exception of selling feet pics when
it comes to brand deals. And so, let me
share with you the ins and outs of how
to actually make this happen. There are
four common misconceptions about brand
partnerships that we need to get out of
the way. First and foremost, first and
foremost, that's kind of a funny pun.
Okay, number one, the first myth or
misconception, something we've already
talked about, is that you need a million
followers. That is absolutely not true.
It matters so much less the quantity of
followers and so much more about the
quality of followers. We're going to
talk about that in just a second, but
the engagement rate and the views, the
actual attention that your brand or
business or account has matters so much
more than the number of pure followers
that you've amassed. The second myth or
misconception is one that I have also
already addressed which is that they
will reach out to you. It is true that
when you have a very large audience,
people will reach out to you. I probably
get a dozen or so reachouts or pitches
every single week. But also about 10 out
of those dozen are copy and paste AI
generated generic lame really bad
pitches, really bad reachouts. And
that's for someone like myself who has
over a million combined followers across
all the platforms. For most people, I
would say for 98% of brand deals that
you actually see taking place on
Instagram, they weren't started by the
brand reaching out to the person. They
were started by the person reaching out
to the brand. Which, by the way, stick
around to the end and I'm going to give
you a free templatized script that you
can put into your email or into your AI
to help you uh create this sort of email
pitch that you're going to use to reach
out to brands. The third myth or
misconception is that by doing a brand
deal, you are a sellout. That's not
true. You deserve to get paid for the
great content you can create. You
deserve to get paid for the attention
and the trust that you have built
online. You only become a sellout when
literally 100% of your posts become an
advertisement and you're willing to take
any money to promote any product. It
doesn't matter if it aligns with your
values. It doesn't matter if it will
serve your audience. All that matters is
that it's going to put money in your
pocket. That's becoming a sellout. But
if you follow these steps that I'm going
to share with you today and you're
working with brands that you believe in,
brands that have a similar vibe, brands
that have similar values as you, and
products that are actually going to
benefit your audience, you're not a
sellout. You're serving your people. And
then the fourth and final misconception
is that you need a talent agent or an
agency or that you just can't do it
alone. And that's absolutely not true.
Like I said, I've been doing brand deals
and partnerships for about seven or
eight years on social media. And I've
only had an agent for myself for the
last year and a half or so. It hasn't
even been two full years with my agent.
I love my agent. He's a great guy. He
takes great care of me. And I ended up
hiring him simply because I didn't want
to have to think about and keep track of
all my brand deals. You should have seen
how many different spreadsheets I had
going to try to keep track of what brand
paid me and what brand was sending me a
PayPal versus what brand was sending me
a direct deposit versus what brand was
going to write me a check and when was
it due and when were the deliver. It was
so much to keep track of at a certain
point and so that's why I decided to
hire an agent. But when you're first
getting started, you absolutely do not
need that. And I would say that even to
the point where you have over a 100,000
followers, even to the point where you
can be doing one brand deal a week, you
still could probably do that on your own
without hiring an agent. No shade to
agents, no shade to any agencies. Some
of them are absolutely wonderful. But I
want to be realistic with you that you
don't need them. But with all that being
said, let's get into it. my actual eight
steps to getting brand deals so you can
get paid for posting on social media.
Number one, you need to build a targeted
demographic of engaged followers. We've
already talked about how you don't need
a million followers, but what you do
need is engaged followers. If you have
no followers at all, then we're looking
at UGC, not brand deals. The whole point
of a brand deal is that the brand wants
your audience to pay attention to them.
The brand wants to basically use the
stage that you've built to speak to your
audience, your community, your group.
And so if you don't have anyone
following you, if you have no audience,
or if you have followers, but they're
not very engaged, they're not paying
attention, you're getting zero likes,
zero comments, zero attention on any of
your posts, a brand is very unlikely to
want to partner with you. Maybe you're a
great content creator and so the brand
might want to do a UGC partnership where
you're making posts for them to post on
their page. But in order to actually
have a brand pay you for your own posts,
you need to have engaged followers. And
the first part of this tip was not just
engaged followers, but a targeted
demographic. If you have engaged
followers that are all over the place,
they are literally everything from 18 to
65 years old, male, female, all over the
world, a brand is going to be less
likely to want to sponsor you because
most brands have a target demographic or
an ideal customer in mind. So, for
example, if I had an Instagram account
that was all about rock climbing, I was
a rock climbing expert myself. all of my
posts were about becoming a better rock
climber, teaching you how to get
started, the gear, all of that sort of
stuff, then it would be likely that the
majority of my followers were like me.
They were getting into rock climbing.
They were learning to do it themselves.
Most of them would probably be men
because I was a man who was teaching
other men how to become rock climbers.
And so, who would want to work with me?
Fitness brands who specialize in
equipment for rock climbers. maybe a
supplement company who has pre-workout
or energy drinks or vitamin mixes for
men who are into outdoorsy activities.
Right? This makes sense. Basically,
brands usually have a target demographic
that they are trying to appeal to. And
so, when you build an engaged group of
followers who fit that target
demographic, that's going to make you
much more appealing to a brand. This
also relates to the topic of niche,
which I believe is step number one for
growing on social media. You can grow
without a niche, but it's going to be
very tough to do. So, yes, there are
influencers who you could probably think
of, who you know and love, and you've
been following for a decade and they
don't really have a niche. I mean, my
mom is kind of in that category where
she doesn't really have a niche. She
posts about a wide variety of things.
Yes, right now at the specific time that
I'm speaking, she's posting a lot about
fitness, uh, but she doesn't have that
same niche for ever, right? She's
constantly changing and evolving. And
you might point to them and be like,
"Well, Brock, they don't have a niche."
And I would say, number one, there is
often times something very unique or
extravagant or attentiongrabbing about
that person's lifestyle that makes them
worth following. So even though they
don't post about one specific thing,
they don't stay in one specific lane,
their overall life is so interesting and
engaging that they're worth following.
Or I would argue and this is also the
case with Charlene Johnson, my mom, is
that that person has amassed their
followers over the course of decades.
And so they've had a long time to build
up this following. And the kind of sub
point for that is that they started
building their following 10 to 15 to 20
years ago when the algorithms were
different. when the follower really
mattered and the number of followers you
had really mattered and when it was rare
to see people documenting their life and
posting about everything that is
involved in their life on social media
where nowadays everyone's posting about
everything in their life on social media
and so if you don't have a niche it's
tougher to grow an engaged audience than
ever before but again all of this is
just step number one for getting a brand
deal having a targeted demographic of
engaged followers of course we have done
literally hundreds of past build your
tribe episodes about increasing your
engagement and getting more views and
going viral. So, if you want to check
out any of those, I'll link up some of
the best recent ones uh down in the show
notes below. So, if you're someone who's
like, "Hey, I haven't even done step one
yet. Like, I don't have very much
engagement. I'm really just getting
started." Check out one of those. Spend
a few weeks or a few months staying
consistent, building up your audience,
and then come back to this episode for
the rest of the steps. But with all that
being said, you might be surprised to
learn that your engagement rate is
higher than you think. I think often
times we're led to believe that
everyone's going viral and everyone's
having success and everyone has great
engagement except for us when that's not
really the case. In fact, according to
the most recent data from Social Book
Influencer, here are the average
engagement rates for different account
sizes. For accounts between 10,000 and
50,000 followers, this is specific to
Instagram, but it does seem to be
relatively similar across most socials,
the average engagement rate is about
3.4%.
That means that if you have 100 views on
your post, you would expect to see about
3 to four likes. So, if your post has
100 views and you have 17 likes, that
would be a 17% engagement rate, and that
would blow this average out of the
water. In fact, for accounts with less
than 50,000 followers, the top 10% of
accounts are only seeing about a 6.2%
engagement rate. So, if you have above a
6.2% engagement rate, then you are in
the absolute top of the top in terms of
engaged audiences. And we see these
average engagement rates continue to
decrease as the account sizes increase.
For example, accounts with between
50,000 and 100,000 followers see an
average of 3.1% as their engagement
rate. For accounts between 100,000 and
500,000 followers, again, according to
SocialBook, they see an average of 2.3%
engagement rate. And for accounts with
more than half a million followers, we
see that the average engagement rate is
below 2%. So again, you don't need a
high quantity of followers. You need a
high quality of followers. These are
targeted followers within a certain
specific demographic range and that are
highly engaged. That's step number one.
Step number two for getting brand deals
is I want you to make a list of five to
10 products that you use every single
day. Now, I find that myself when I was
first getting into brand partnerships
and doing this practice, I was
oftentimes thinking about physical
products, but I want you to consider
digital products as well. So, for me, as
someone who creates content online and
who teaches other business owners how to
grow their following and and build their
business on social media, my brain might
instinctually go to tripods or camera or
phone mounts, things that are physical,
right? But as I started to explore the
world of brand partnerships more, I
realized it was much more beneficial for
my audience and made a lot more sense
for me to think about the digital
products that I was using. So what
scheduling tool do I use to schedule all
my posts for Instagram? What software do
I use to automate my direct messages?
What editing tool do I use to edit my
photos? Thinking about the digital
products in addition to the physical
products is a great way to get started.
But again, I want you to make a list of
5 to 10. These should be five to 10
products that ideally meet the three
following categories. Number one, a
product that you already use. Ideally,
you're going to partner with a brand
that creates a product that you use
often that maybe you've been using for
years. It's going to make the
partnership so much more authentic and
real because then you avoid promoting
something that you've literally never
used and have no experience with. It's
much easier to talk about something that
you love and that you've been using for
years than to talk about something that
you were just sent for the first time
and you just unboxed. The second
criteria that I want all of these
products to meet is that it's a product
that would actually benefit your
audience. It's a product that your
audience would actually be interested
in. It would actually make their life
easier. It would actually solve a big
problem that they have. For me, almost
all of my followers want to make more
sales. And so I tell them about the DM
automation product that I use because
that helps them make more sales. Almost
all of my followers want to be more
consistent. And I think that if you use
a scheduling tool, you're going to be
more consistent. So I recommend my
scheduling tool. Almost all of my
followers create content on their phone.
And so I partner with a tripod company
because that helps them hold their phone
better and create more content with
their phone. And then the third criteria
to consider is does this brand align
with my values, with my mission?
Sometimes this is going to be very
obvious because the brand is very
outspoken about their beliefs and their
values and their missions. Sometimes
it's going to take a little bit more
time and some more research and digging
to figure out what the brand is truly
about. But some places that you could
look are most brands websites nowadays
have like an our mission or our values
sort of page where you can read about
the brand. You can also look at their
own social medias and the things that
they do and don't post about. You could
look at other influencers who have
worked with the brand if you know like
what that influencer is all about and
you know their beliefs and their values
and whether or not those align with your
own. But it's just things that you want
to consider when you're deciding to
partner with a brand. Oh, and then one
other pro tip that actually comes from
Modern Millie, which by the way, great
Instagram account, great friend of mine.
She also has an awesome YouTube channel
that I would highly recommend checking
out. I saw she recently made a post over
on Tik Tok kind of about this topic of
getting brand deals and she had a great
tip that I wanted to make sure I shared
here, which was that you should consider
local brands and local small businesses.
Especially when you have a smaller
following, it might be hard to get Nike
to want to work with you. But maybe
because of that, they're also looking
for someone with a smaller audience
size, but someone who's in the local
community like yourself. All of this
leads to step number three for getting
paid partnerships, and that is to do
your research. We've already talked a
little bit about researching the brand
and their values and their background,
but I'm going to give you four questions
that you need to ask or that I should
say you need to answer in order to get
paid partnerships. And before I even
tell you those four questions, I'm going
to tell you the best possible place to
do your research. It's a website, and
this is not a paid partnership itself.
It's a website called FYPM.vip.
FYPM stands for uh the fword. I won't
say it cuz I don't want to get my
YouTube demonetized, but f you fudge you
pay me. FYPM.VIP.
It's a really cool service and fpm.vip
is essentially a glass door but for
brand partnerships and influencer
marketing. With most other traditional
careers, it is relatively easy and it
has become very common practice to know
the industry standard. What are other
people getting paid for this job? what's
the annual salary or what's the hourly
wages of someone who is working the role
that I am applying for. You could do the
specific research to find hey what are
other data analysts who work at Google
getting paid in their first year if they
have a college degree and you could find
a realistic starting point and that
would help you judge what companies you
wanted to apply for what jobs or careers
you wanted to go into. But in this world
of, you know, online digital marketing
and brand partnerships for the last
really 10 to 15 years, it's been really
tough to know exactly what are these
people getting paid, how much money are
people actually making, what are brands
actually paying to work with people. But
thanks to FYPM.vip,
you can see all of that. It's
essentially a database that has tens of
thousands of people like myself, I've
literally done this myself, who have
submitted their own brand deals. Here's
the brand. Here's how much they paid me.
Here's what they asked for. here's how
it went. Like, you can give them a
review. You can give them uh feedback as
to like, hey, you know, the brand was
really a jerk. Like, working with them
was really a pain in the butt. It wasn't
worth it. Or, hey, this brand didn't pay
me a ton, but they were super laxed and
they gave me a ton of creative freedom,
and so it was a great partnership. Or,
hey, this brand asked for way too much,
but I pushed back and I was able to get
them to increase their rate. Whatever.
You can basically read all that. You can
read about how many followers the person
had. You can read about what industry
they're in. Oftentimes you can even go
to their exact Instagram profile or
social media to see what their
engagement rate looks like. You can
filter by brand, by industry. It is such
such a useful tool and I have had their
CEO on Build Your Tribe a few years ago.
She's awesome as well. But FYPM.VIP,
highly recommend checking it out. And I
think you can even get free access if
you've done a brand deal yourself in the
past. So if you submit a brand deal that
you have done, you can get approved and
get free access to the site. Otherwise,
I think that there's a small fee that
you can pay to get access to basically
the entire database, but it's super
useful for research and for answering
the following questions. Number one, we
need to start with this. Does the brand
already do partnerships? If the brand
that you want to work with has never
done a partnership before, it's going to
be pretty tough for you to be their
first. It could happen. There's always
got to be a first, right? But it's going
to be much easier for you to work with a
brand that already has a track record of
doing brand partnerships. Number two,
more specifically, and this one you'll
be able to answer using fyp.vip,
does the brand do partnerships with
accounts of my size? You might find that
even though some brands do partnerships,
they're still in this old, outdated,
antiquated style of thinking where they
only partner with people who have a
million plus followers. It is of course
going to be much easier for someone like
yourself who maybe has a smaller
following to get a brand partnership
from a company that is already doing
brand partnerships with people who also
have a smaller following. Besides using
FYPM, you could also do some hashtag
research or even just some keyword
research on Instagram or on Tik Tok. For
example, you could put the name of the
brand plus the word partner. Like I
oftent times use # many chat partner or
partner with many chat or sponsored by
ManyHat on my posts where I am sponsored
by ManyHat for example. So if you look
up those sorts of keywords or hashtags,
you can often find other influencers who
have made posts for that brand in the
past. Of course, the bigger the brand,
the more likely you are to find more
brand partnerships. Like if you look up
#sponsored by Nike or Nike partner,
you're going to find a lot more posts
than if you look up some random shoe
brand that no one's really ever heard
of. Question number three, and this
one's going to be really tough to answer
for yourself. And so that's why again I
would recommend using FYPM, but how much
has the brand paid people like me? On
FYPM, you'll be able to see, oh, hey,
here's someone with about the same
number of followers as me. The brand
asked them to do three posts and the
brand paid them $2,000. And then you're
going to be able to judge, is that worth
it for me? Is that worth my time,
energy, and effort? Is that worth me
putting my name and my likeness and my
credibility behind the brand? Or vice
versa. Or maybe that amount of money
wouldn't normally be worth it, but
because it's a really big brand and it's
going to give you great social
credibility or it's a brand that you
just love and it's always been a dream
of yours to work with them, maybe you'll
accept a lower budget. But it's of
course totally up to you. And we'll talk
more about rates and fees a little bit
later. But just at this stage, you'll
get to do your research to see
realistically what are other people
getting paid and what would make sense
for me. And then the fourth question
that you should research and answer is
who should I reach out to? You could
potentially find the name or contact of
the person you should reach out to on
FYPM. Alternatively, you could look at
the brand's websites and sometimes they
will have a little note in the footer or
in the contact section about
partnerships or brand inquiries and you
could reach out to that person. If
neither of those options work, you could
resort to direct messaging the brand on
Instagram. And oftentimes the person who
is running the social media for the
brand will either be the person who's in
charge of brand partnerships or they'll
be able to connect you and give you the
email address of the person who you need
to speak with. Or if all else fails, you
could look for past partners, people who
have worked with the brand or been
sponsored by the brand in the past. And
then you could reach out to them
directly and see if they would be
willing to share who they contacted or
who got in contact with them to set up
that brand partnership. But it is really
important to make sure that you are
reaching out to the right person. If you
reach out to the wrong email address,
you might get filtered to spam. You
might never get responded to. You might
get ignored. And so it's important that
you spend the time to make sure that you
are actually having your email land in
the correct inbox. All righty, let's get
into arguably the most important step of
all, which is the actual reachout. What
do you actually say? Number one, before
you say anything, make sure that you're
following the brand. I cannot tell you
how many emails I receive a week. I
guess I can tell you it's probably like
three or four emails every single week.
And probably a dozen or so direct
messages every single week from people
who are like, "Hey, Brock, such a big
fan of the podcast. I would love uh to
be a guest on the show. I think you
should interview me for blah blah blah.
I did this cool thing. Here's all about
me." And then I click on their Instagram
and they're not following me. Like, how
can you be such a big fan if you're not
even following me in the first place?
No, I'm not going to have you on the
podcast just because you claim to be a
big fan if you're not going to at least
take the bare minimum step of pressing
follow. This is not meant to be shade or
disrespect to anyone who has reached out
to me in the past. Uh but it is meant to
be a learning lesson for all of y'all.
Before you reach out to a brand, make
sure that you're at least following
them. Oftentimes, brands will check.
They'll check to see if you've followed
them. They'll check to see if you've
engaged with their posts before saying,
"Yeah, heck yeah, let's let's partner."
Sometimes they'll even check to see if
you're already a customer of the brand
because they want to verify, hey, if
you're saying you love the brand or you
love X, Y, and Z product, are you legit
or are you starting this entire
collaboration off with a lie? The second
tip for reaching out is to keep it
brief. There is no reason to write a
threepage essay double spaced MLA format
in order to pitch a brand. Sometimes
just two or three paragraphs with a
couple sentences in each paragraph is
enough to do the trick. Think about
this. Brands are getting likely dozens
if not hundreds, sometimes even
thousands of messages or reachouts or
pitches on a daily basis. And usually
it's a pretty thin department, if not
just one single person who's having to
read through all of those. So make it
brief. Do that person a favor by being
concise and succinct in your pitch. When
it comes to what should you actually be
concise and succinct with, first and
foremost, I find it very helpful to be
concise with my specific experience with
the product. Not just saying, "I love
this product. It's changed my life," but
the specific problem that it's solved,
the specific use case that I have for
it, maybe how many years I've been using
it, or the results that I've gotten with
the product. This shows the brand that
this is not just a generic pitch, but it
is a specific reachout from a customer.
Next, it's important to clearly show the
brand your UVP or your unique value
proposition. Your unique value
proposition is likely going to include
one of the following three things.
Number one, what do you offer that other
people can't? Like, what's unique about
you? What's so special about you? What's
so unique about your page or your
followers or the content that you make?
Do you have a super high engagement
rate? Do you have a super unique
approach? Do you have a super uh unique
use case for the product? Like, what is
it that is so special about you? And
this is something that first of all, let
me say you do probably have. You likely
have something unique about you,
something that is special, some reason
that a brand would love to work with
you. If not, if there is absolutely
nothing, then either figure out what
that thing is or don't work with that
specific brand. The second part of your
UVP is what's in it for them because
that's what brands care about, right?
Brands are businesses. They want to make
money. They care about the bottom line.
They care about the return on
investment. So what sort of return on
investment can you give to them? What is
the specific benefit that the brand is
going to have from working with you over
working with anyone else? What's in it
for them? And then the third part of
your UVP is why should they want to work
with you? Like what is the real
difference maker? What's the real secret
sauce here? What's the real magic
sparkle pixie dust that you offer that
makes you special that no one else can
bring to the table? These are not
necessarily easy questions to answer,
but these are questions that once you
can answer, you're going to get way more
brand deals. You're going to get paid
way more by these brands, and you're
going to really stand out for any
company that you want to work with. The
third thing that I recommend adding to
any pitch email is past case studies or
examples. If you cannot just tell the
brand, but you can show the brand what
it's like to work with you, that is
golden in their eyes. If you've already
done brand partnerships in the past,
this is the time and place where you
highlight the most successful campaigns.
If you haven't done brand partnerships
in the past, which I would assume is
many of you because you're watching this
episode, you can do one of three things.
You can either number one, share with
the brand your own products or services
that you have sold because even though
you're not selling for another brand,
just the fact that you are proving that
you are able to sell and get conversions
from your social media, that's a great
thing. The second thing you could
consider sharing with the brand is past
affiliate marketing success. Affiliate
marketing is a great stepping stone
towards brand partnerships. Before I
ever did my first brand partnership, I
did a ton of affiliate marketing. I
shared this in a recent episode of Build
Your Tribe. But when I was in college,
when I was a freshman in college, one of
my good friends had a reusable water
bottle company. And so I became an
affiliate for his company. I would
promote the water bottles on my
Instagram stories. And then for every
sale that I made, I would get a 20%
kickback. It was a nice way to generate
some extra income to help out my friend
with his company. And his company was
for a good cause. So, it was all around
a win-win. But when it eventually came
time for me to level up my income,
diversify my income and expand my income
potential, aka start doing brand
partnerships and influencer marketing
rather than just affiliate marketing. I
had this past affiliate marketing as a
success story to point to. I could say,
"Look, I posted about my friend's water
bottle company on my Instagram stories.
When I did that, I got X number of
views. I got X number of link clicks and
from those link clicks, I got X number
of conversions and I generated this much
money for the water bottle company." So,
if you're someone who has never sold
anything on social media before, it can
be very advantageous to start with
affiliate marketing because then you
have something to show the brand as
proof of concept. Show the brand that
you are capable of selling. And of
course, it also helps you get
comfortable selling to your audience.
And then third and least effective is if
you don't have your own products that
you've sold, if you don't have affiliate
marketing case studies that you can
share with the brand, you could just
share with them engagement rates and
other click-through rates. Maybe you get
people to click and listen to your
podcast. Maybe you get people to visit
some website that's not necessarily
selling them, but you're just directing
them to some page. just something that
is actually numerical, something that is
statistically proving to the brand that
there is going to be a potential of
success from working with you. The final
thing that you could include in your
pitch email is what's called a pitch
deck or a media kit. And this is what
most people think they need to get
started when the reality is I got
probably my first 70% of brand deals
before I ever made a media kit. And then
I had a media kit professionally made
and I don't think I've touched it since.
Media kits are like super pretty
polished powerpoints usually or
slideshows that are like, "Hey brand,
here's how many followers I have. Here's
what's really cool about working with
me." It's kind of like taking all of the
ingredients of this pitch email but
making it look pretty. And the reality
is, like I said, these brand
partnerships are usually run by one
person or a really small team. And so
they don't have time to flip through
your pretty infographics and your pretty
slideshow. They just want to read some
concise bullet points or some concise
sentences in an email. And so you could
include a media kit. Some brands will
ask for a media kit. There are plenty of
templates on Canva and that you can just
find online that you can basically plug
in your own info into, but it's not
super important. Now, as you know, I'm a
big fan of not just teaching a man to
fish, but also giving a man a fish. And
so now that you know what goes into your
pitch email, now that you know how to
reach out, I have a template for you.
And it's going to be easy for you to
find. You don't even have to put in your
email or go to some website. I'll just
put it in the show notes. So down below
this YouTube video or the podcast,
wherever you're listening, uh you'll
find a copy and pasteable kind of like
template that you can use as a starting
point for your pitch email. I'm not
saying that this is like a guaranteed
email that's going to get you every
brand deal 100% of the time, but if
nothing else, it is a starting point for
you to plug in your own information,
your own demographics, and make reaching
out to brands just a little bit easier.
Moving on to tip number five for getting
paid partnerships on social media is
follow up. The fortune is in the
follow-up. If you don't get a response,
follow up and then follow up again and
then look for a different email, someone
else to reach out to so you can actually
get a response. If you don't hear back
from a brand, don't be pessimistic. Be
irrationally optimistic and assume, oh,
hey, it probably just got filtered to
spam, or maybe that email just doesn't
work anymore, or maybe there's some
turnover at the company, or maybe
they're super busy right now, so they
haven't had time to respond. Keep
following up and keep reaching out until
you do get a response. You'll be so
surprised at how many brand deals you
can land by just sending a second or a
third email. The worst that could
possibly happen is the brand says no.
That's fine. Now you're one step closer
to finding a brand that you could work
with. If a brand does say no, I do
recommend asking them why. Not in an
accusatory way, not in an angry or
defensive way, but just genuinely asking
what things you could improve or what
you should change before reaching out to
that brand again in the future. And if
you do this, then every no that you
receive turns from a no into a not yet.
And every no turns into a lesson that
you can use to get more yeses in the
future. Step number six in getting brand
deals is getting paid, or rather
negotiating rates and figuring out what
you would be willing to accept as
payment in exchange for posting. There
is no perfect equation because there's
so much subjectivity in determining what
you think is fair. And there are also so
many different opinions on this topic.
Some people absolutely believe that you
should never take free product in
exchange for posting. Some people
believe that when you're first getting
started, you should only take free
product for posting. There are lots of
different schools of thought and lots of
different ways of determining what your
fee is going to be. But I find that a
helpful one is the AIL times number of
followers. This is an equation that has
been gaining popularity over the last
few years as a replacement to just
looking at the number of followers you
have to determine what your brand deal
rate should be. I find that for most
Instagram posts, this equation works
pretty well. AIL stands for average
impact level. And here's how you can
determine what your average impact level
is and then how you can plug that into
the rest of the equation. Your average
impact level is your score from 0 to 5
in the four following categories.
Category number one, engagement rate.
Category number two, past brand deal
experience. Category number three,
industry impact or basically how well
known are you in your field. And
category number four, expertise. So
basically, you take these four
categories, you assign yourself a grade
between zero being the worst and five
being the best. Then you average out
those four numbers and that's your AIL,
your average impact level. For example,
if I was a rock climbing coach with
pretty solid engagement, above average
engagement, I would give myself a four
out of five for that first category.
Maybe for that second category, past
brand deal experience, I'm only going to
give myself a one out of five because I
haven't really done very many yet. I've
done some affiliate stuff and I've done
some free product stuff, but I haven't
done any paid brand deals yet. So, one
out of five. For the third category,
industry impact, I'm going to give
myself a three out of five in this
example, because maybe I was a former
professional. And so maybe I don't have
a ton of followers yet, but just because
of my own credibility, because I was a
former pro, um, and because some people,
you know, look up to me and I have some
fans, I'm going to give myself a three
out of five. Kind of middle of the road.
And then for expertise, I'm going to
give myself a five out of five because
in this hypothetical, like I said, I was
a former pro. So I have a ton of
expertise in this area. So, I'm a five
out of five. Then I add up those four
numbers. 4 + 1 + 3 + 5 for a total of
14. I divide that by 4 for an average
score of 3.25. Then I'm just going to
move the decimal over two places to
change it from a number into a
percentage. So instead of 3.25, it would
be 0325.
And then you just take that number and
you multiply it by the number of
followers you have. So let's say
hypothetically I have 2,700 followers.
That would equate to $87.75
for a single post. And for someone with
that AIL and that number of followers, I
think that's a pretty fair rate. Now, of
course, this is just a baseline. Maybe
you'd be happy with $50. Maybe it takes
you a really long time to create content
and you create super highquality
content, so you're going to charge 100
or $1500 or $200. This equation is not
meant to be a rule. It's just meant to
be a general guideline or a starting
point for getting brand deals. Like I
mentioned earlier, I would also highly
suggest checking out fpm.vip. VIP to see
what other people are getting paid so
that when you're negotiating, you're
able to get the most possible money from
these brands and that you're able to
actually get paid what you deserve by
these companies. And the last thing I'll
say about pricing is I'll throw out my
two cents, which is that when you're
first getting started, when you have a
very small audience, when you've never
done brand deals before, it's okay to
accept free product, especially when
it's free product that you would
otherwise have to buy or have to use. to
stick with this same hypothetical. If I
was in the rock climbing niche and I was
starting to do brand partnerships and
companies were offering me free rock
climbing equipment that I would
otherwise have to buy, well then that
might be worth it to me because sure, I
can't use free stuff to pay the bills,
but I would have spent $100 on that
equipment anyways. And so by getting it
for free, I saved the $100 and I can use
the $100 I saved to pay my bills. But
again, rates and fees and pricing is
very subjective. It's up to you. And
also, I think it's really wise to do
your research and to figure out what you
would be comfortable with. Step number
seven in brand deals, once you've
reached out, you've negotiated price,
you've even signed the contract, and
it's finally time to make the actual
post for the brand, use DM automation,
but clear it with them first. Often
times, brands will want you to use a
specific link, right? They'll want you
to promote uh their website/youname.
It's like the custom tracking link that
they provide you with. Before you
actually post, ask them if they would be
okay with you using DM automation. DM
automation, which stands for direct
message automation, is that thing, and
I'm sure you've seen it, where I do it
all the time, where someone will say,
"Comment this word and I will send you
this thing. Comment the word guide and I
will send you my free guide. Comment the
word rock climb and I will send you 10%
off my favorite rock climbing shoes,"
for example. DM automation is a win for
you and it's a win for the brand. And
here's how you will get more engagement
because instead of telling people, "Hey,
leave this post, go to my link in bio,
and click away," you're telling people
to engage. You're telling people to
interact with the post specifically
through commenting. By getting more
engagement and more interaction, you're
going to get more views. That's a win
for you. It's a win for the brand
because now your post is going to reach
more people. It's going to be seen by
more eyeballs and it is most likely
going to get more clicks and more
interaction aka more conversions, more
sales, more return on investment for
them. If you have never used DM
automation before, it's going to be
tough to make this argument to the brand
because you're pretty much going to have
to just say, "Hey, listen to what this
guy Brock on this YouTube video said."
So instead, again, starting with
affiliate marketing or starting with
your own product sales is a great way to
show proof of concept for DM automation.
But I have found that thanks to DM
automation, I'm able to land more brand
deals and I'm able to get paid a higher
rate by the brands because even though I
might not get as many views as this
other person, even though I might not
have as many followers as this other
influencer, I'm able to get a better
CTR, click-through rate. I'm able to get
better conversion rates. I'm basically
able to make more sales for the brand
even with less views or less followers
because of this specific strategy. Going
back to the whole idea of UVP, unique
value proposition, and the actual
reachout or pitching of the brand. This
can absolutely be a part of your UVP.
I'm a firm believer that direct message
automation is the future of doing
business on Instagram. And so while some
brands and businesses are super outdated
and they want you to put the link in
your caption even though it's not
clickable when it's in the caption, some
brands will recognize the power of a
tool like DM automation. They'll
recognize that it's going to get them
more clicks. It's going to make them
more money. It's going to provide a
better return on investment from working
with you. And when you can clearly spell
that out to them, it makes you look so
much more attractive as someone to work
with. So reference DM automation case
studies and past examples of DM
automation in your initial reach out or
pitch to the brand. Number two, make
sure that the brand is cool with you
using DM automation in this brand
partnership. And then third is just make
sure that you're actually using DM
automation. Make sure that instead of
telling people to click the link in your
bio or even worse putting a link in your
caption, tell them to comment the
specific keyword and then they'll
automatically receive whatever it is,
the discount code, the link, the
website, whatever. If you've never heard
of or you've never used or you're still
trying to figure out how to set up and
the advantages of DM automation, I did
an entire video about it on YouTube
about a year ago. It was called Get Way
More Leads and Sales on Instagram with
DM automation. We'll link that up up
here at the top and down in the show
notes as well. So that if that's a
strategy you want to learn more about,
which I highly recommend that you do if
you don't already know about it, uh
definitely go check out that video. And
then finally, last but not least, once
the post has gone live, once it's been a
week or two, follow up. Report back to
the brand. Sometimes this will be baked
into the contract. Sometimes they'll
require you to give like a 30-day update
on stats and insights. Sometimes they
won't. But don't let that partnership
just be a one-off deal. If you enjoyed
working with the brand, if you enjoyed
the process, if you thought the
compensation was fair and worth it for
you, follow up. Maybe you could do a
second deal with them. Maybe you could
parlay this into a monthly deal where
you're going to make a post for them
every single month for the next 12
months, which of course is going to pay
a lot more than just one single brand
deal. If nothing else, thank the brand
for their time, their energy, and their
trust. There have now been numerous
times where I have worked with a brand
because their brand partnership manager
used to work at a different brand that I
had previously partnered with a few
years earlier and then they just changed
companies but I'm still in their rolodex
of influencers so to speak. So be kind,
treat people like people. Thank people.
Show that gratitude and it can go a
really long way. Speaking of gratitude,
thank you so much for watching andor
listening today. Again, don't forget to
check out all those free resources down
in the show notes below. And I finally
want to end by saying this. Today's
episode actually came about because a
few weeks back I did an entire podcast
about how to make $10,000 on Instagram
in 2025. And I briefly mentioned brand
deals as a possible revenue stream or
income opportunity. And I asked you all
to let me know in the comments if that
was something that you wanted me to go
deeper on and do an updated podcast
about. And a bunch of people responded
saying yes. And so here we are. And I
say that to say I am reading every
single comment that is left on every
single YouTube video we have ever put
out. So please, if you have any
questions, comments, concerns,
suggestions, future episodes, topics you
want to see covered, if you hate talking
about Instagram and you want to hear
more about Tik Tok, let me know. If you
want more podcasts that are just full of
ideas rather than full of tips, let me
know. Any feedback, any suggestions, any
questions, comments, concerns, please
put them in the comments. I love hearing
from you all. and thank you so much for
the support. We are over 50,000
subscribers now. It is so awesome to
continue to see this podcast grow and it
is my commitment to you to continue to
improve this show. We're working on some
really exciting updates uh for the
remainder of 2025 and some big plans,
some big guests, some big episodes
coming for 2026. So, thank you so much
for being here and as always, happy
networking.